
Below the shelf containing the spell books, you see any special abilities the highlighted wizard possesses. These attributes are described in Special Abilities. Brief summaries of these special abilities are also included, when relevant, with the descriptions of the predesigned wizards.
What follows is a list of the fourteen predesigned wizards. If you wish to play as one of these wizards, click on his or her name. If you wish to design your own wizard, go to Creating a Wizard.

• Ariel is a high priestess who specializes in life magic. With ten spell books (ranks) in life magic, Ariel can learn all life magic spells. In addition to her extensive knowledge of this field, Ariel is a gifted diplomat. Her special ability (Charismatic) doubles the effectiveness of any positive diplomatic actions she takes and halves the negative impact—that is, how she is viewed by enemy wizards when she commits unfriendly acts. In addition, her charisma allows her to purchase magic items and to hire heroes and mercenaries at half price.
• Freya is an elven nymph who specializes in nature magic. With 10 spell ranks in nature magic, she can learn all the spells in this area. She also possesses the special ability of Nature Mastery, which increases the speed with which she can research nature spells. The ability of Nature Mastery makes Freya’s nature spells twice as difficult to dispel, while allowing her to draw double the normal amount of magic power from any nature nodes under her control.
• Horus is a sorcerer who specializes in both sorcery and life magic (having five spell ranks in each of these areas). Horus is also an Archmage, which makes him particularly effective at casting spells. This ability also makes his spells twice as difficult to dispel. Interestingly, Horus is the most erratic of the known wizards and is not always fully aware of his potential. Thus, when he is controlled by the computer (as an enemy wizard), he may have radically different areas of specialization than those noted here.
• Jafar is an Arabian illusionist who understands the mysteries of sorcery magic. With 10 spell ranks in sorcery magic there are few spells in this area missing from his spell library. Jafar is also an alchemist (his special ability is Alchemy), which allows him to interconvert gold and magic power at no cost.
• Kali is a witch who specializes in both death and sorcery magic (having five spell ranks in each of these areas). She also has the special ability of Artificer, which allows her to draw double the usual amount of magic power from nodes under her control.
• Lo Pan is an oriental mystic who specializes in both chaos and sorcery magic (having five spell ranks in each of these areas). Lo Pan has developed the ability to channel magic power directly from his location in the enchanted fortress to his troops on the battlefield (special ability of Channeler). This ability allows him to bypass paying higher mana rates for casting combat spells outside of his fortress.
