
which indicates the kind of magic described in the tome. The more books that a wizard owns in a particular kind of magic, the more rare and powerful spells he or she can learn in that subject.
There are five types of magic in which wizards can specialize:

• Life magic (indicated by white ankhs on the spell book bindings) is focused on healing, protective and inspirational spells. This magic has healing spells so powerful that the dead can be resurrected. It is also the only type of magic to offer spells that allow creatures to travel between the worlds (planes) of Arcanus and Myrror. This form of magic has elements that strongly oppose death magic and some that mildly oppose chaos magic.
• Death magic (indicated by purple skulls on the spell book bindings) concentrates on controlling the forces of darkness. This magic provides spells for summoning dead creatures, corrupting enemy wizards’ power bases, instilling fear in the hearts of enemies, blighting land and causing misfortune of all types to befall foes. Because life and death magic are so strongly antithetical, no wizard can specialize in both of these magic types.
• Chaos magic (indicated by red fireballs on the spell book bindings) specializes in wreaking havoc on the surrounding world by twisting and warping creatures, weapons and nodes. When change alone is not enough, this magic can call forth the destructive elements of fire and lightning to do its bidding.
• Nature magic (indicated by green trees on the spell book bindings) claims as its domain spells that encourage fertility and growth. Rooted in the land, this magic can call upon the elements of stone and water to smite enemies with earthquakes and ice bolts. This magic may also call upon the earth’s wisdom to explore areas of the worlds and see things that are far beyond the normal range of sight.
• Sorcery magic (indicated by blue diamonds on the spell book bindings) focuses on creating illusions and controlling the elemental force of air (even to the extent that individual creatures can be endowed with the control of air through flight). When all else fails, however, sorcery magic has another area in which it reigns supreme: meta-magic, or the ability to control and resist other wizards’ spells!

In addition to the five magic types noted above, there is a sixth type, arcane magic, that requires no spell ranks to learn. Arcane magic is available to all spell casters.

• Arcane magic is the most basic of all magic on Arcanus and Myrror. Its spells allow wizards to summon heroes (see Heroes), to create amazing objects of great power (see Artifacts) and to cast basic magic spells, such as those that remove spells that have been cast on your wizard by enemies. All arcane magic spells are automatically placed into your spell library to learn when you are ready. These spells, therefore, require no spell books to learn (i.e., you do not choose arcane spell ranks).
