
Mouse Commands

We assume here that you understand basic mouse functionality, like clicking and dragging. Since your mouse has two buttons, the interface distinguishes between them. The following definitions refer to their usage in this manual.

• A "click" refers to placing the pointer over an area of the screen and clicking with the left mouse button.  
• A "right-click" is a click with the right mouse button.  
• "Opening a menu" requires a click on the name of the menu in the menu bar.  
• "Selecting" means clicking on something.  
• You "run" the mouse by moving it over an image or object without clicking.  
• "Pressing a button" with the mouse means clicking on the screen button.  
• "Toggling" means that you have only two options, and clicking the button flips back and forth between the two.  

The Main Menu

After installing Master of Magic and entering the game, you begin at the main menu. This menu allows you to continue playing the last game you were running (an option not present the first time you start Master of Magic), to load a previously saved game, and to start a new game.  
If this is your first time playing Master of Magic or if you wish to start a new game, click on the new game button. Otherwise, click on the appropriate button.

CONTINUE  
Clicking on this button takes you back to the game you were playing last. Note that any game in progress is automatically backed up every four turns and “autosaved” into a temporary saved game file. The autosave feature writes over the previous autosaved game in this file.

LOAD GAME  
Clicking on this button takes you to the game options screen. In that screen you can click on one of the saved game file names to reload that game.

NEW GAME  
Clicking on this button takes you to the new game screen (described in the following section).

QUIT TO DOS  
Clicking on this button exits Master of Magic and returns you to DOS.
